1. What is the difference between a Mutable datatype and an Immutable data type?
Mutable data types can be edited i.e., they can change at runtime. Eg – List, Dictionary, etc.
Immutable data types can not be edited i.e., they can not change at runtime. Eg – String, Tuple, etc.

2. What is the difference between a Set and Dictionary?
The set is an unordered collection of data types that is iterable, mutable and has no duplicate elements.
A dictionary in Python is an ordered collection of data values, used to store data values like a map.

3. What is the difference between / and // in Python?
// represents floor division whereas / represents precise division. For Example:
5//2 = 2
5/2 = 2.5

4. Difference between for loop and while loop in Python
The “for” Loop is generally used to iterate through the elements of various collection types such as List, Tuple, Set, and Dictionary.
Developers use a “for” loop where they have both the conditions start and the end.
Whereas, the “while” loop is the actual looping feature that is used in any other programming language.
Programmers use a Python while loop where they just have the end conditions.

5. What is a break, continue, and pass in Python? 
The break statement is used to terminate the loop or statement in which it is present. 
After that, the control will pass to the statements that are present after the break statement, if available.

Continue is also a loop control statement just like the break statement. 
continue statement is opposite to that of the break statement, instead of terminating the loop, it forces to execute the next iteration of the loop.

Pass means performing no operation or in other words, it is a placeholder in the compound statement, 
where there should be a blank left and nothing has to be written there.

6. How do you access the value returned by a function invoked in another function?
You can access the value returned by a function invoked in another function by using the return statement. 
For example, if you have a function that calculates the sum of two numbers, 
you can access the value returned by the function by using the return statement.

7. Differentiate between List and Tuple?
Let’s analyze the differences between List and Tuple:

List
Lists are Mutable datatype.
Lists consume more memory
The list is better for performing operations, such as insertion and deletion.
The implication of iterations is Time-consuming

Tuple
Tuples are Immutable datatype.
Tuple consumes less memory as compared to the list
A Tuple data type is appropriate for accessing the elements
The implication of iterations is comparatively Faster

8. What does the ‘#’ symbol do in Python?
‘#’ is used to comment on everything that comes after on the line.

9. What are the two types of functions in Python?
There are two types of functions in Python: built-in functions and user-defined functions. 
Built-in functions are functions that are already defined in the Python language, such as the print() function. 
User-defined functions are functions that are created by the user, and they can be created to do anything that the user wants them to do.

10. Why does Python support both positional and keyword arguments to its functions?
Python supports both positional and keyword arguments in order to give developers more flexibility when designing their functions.
Positional arguments are those that are passed in by position, without explicitly specifying the parameter name. 
Keyword arguments are those that are passed in by explicitly specifying the parameter name. 
Python allows for both types of arguments so that developers can choose the approach that makes the most sense for their particular function.

11. what is lambda in python ?
anonymous function means that a function is without a name.
As we already know that def keyword is used to define the normal functions and the lambda keyword is used to create anonymous functions.

12.  Mention what are the rules for local and global variables in Python?
Local variables: If a variable is assigned a new value anywhere within the function's body, it's assumed to be local.
Global variables: Those variables that are only referenced inside a function are implicitly global.

13. Mention the use of the split function in Python?
The use of the split function in Python is that it breaks a string into shorter strings using the defined separator.
It gives a list of all words present in the string.

14. What Are The Principal Differences Between The Lambda And Def?
Lambda Vs. Def.
Def can hold multiple expressions while lambda is a uni-expression function.
Def generates a function and designates a name to call it later. Lambda forms a function object and returns it.
Def can have a return statement. Lambda can’t have return statements.
Lambda supports to get used inside a list and dictionary.

15.What Is A Function In Python Programming?
 A function is an object which represents a block of code and is a reusable entity. 
 It brings modularity to a program and a higher degree of code reusability.
Python has given us many built-in functions such as print() and provides the ability to create user-defined functions.

16.What Does The Ord() Function Do In Python?
The ord(char) in Python takes a string of size one and returns an integer denoting the Unicode code format of the character in case of a Unicode type object,
or the value of the byte if the argument is of 8-bit string type.

17.What are types of Operator are used in Python? 
Arithmetic Operators
Comparison Operators
Python Assignment Operators
Logical Operators or Bitwise Operators
Membership Operators
Identity Operators

18.What is dictionary in Python?
Python dictionary is an unordered collection of items. While other compound data types have only value as an element, a dictionary has a key: value pair.
Dictionaries are optimized to retrieve values when the key is known.
How to create a dictionary?
Creating a dictionary is as simple as placing items inside curly braces {} separated by comma.
An item has a key and the corresponding value expressed as a pair, key: value.

19.What is PEP 8?
 PEP 8 is a coding convention, a set of recommendation, about how to write your Python code more readable.

 20.What will append() and extend methods do?
 append() adds the element at the end.
extend() adds the elements of a different list at the end.

21. what is pop() ?
The pop() method removes the item at the given index from the list. The method also returns the removed item.

The syntax of the pop() method is:
	list.pop(index)

Example:- 
language = ['Python', 'Java', 'C++', 'French', 'C']
return_value = language.pop(3)
print('Return Value: ', return_value)
print('Updated List: ', language)

Output:-
Return Value:  French
Updated List:  ['Python', 'Java', 'C++', 'C']
